in queues 30 or 40 strong
they head for the drop-off on the ocean
side of the lagoon
it seems that they know the way from the
overall direction of current and swell
which remains constant at this depth
lines join together into longer lines
sometimes
60 lobsters will be marching one behind
the other
the migration takes place within a few
days each year
and then the whole lagoon floor is
covered with parallel marching columns
[Music]
traveling in line reduces the drag of
the water on an individual by as much as
half
but there's another reason why it's
better to march in this way
if they are threatened they can form
defensive circles
a trigger fish one of their main enemies
it wants to attack the vulnerable legs
but it has little chance of getting past
the ring of spear-like antennae
but a solitary traveler is in trouble
first it's disarmed
then the rest is easy
[Music]
there are others ready to pick flesh
from the broken limbs
within a few minutes all that is left is
an empty shell
[Music]
when the survivors reach the shelter of
the rich reefs that run along the edge
of the ocean drop off
they abandon the caravans and each makes
its own way
one by one they camber down the slope to
even greater depths
where they will be safe from the storms
that churn the waters
hundreds of feet above
you